Name: Ayoub Darkaoui
Email: Ayoub_Darkaoui@student.uml.edu
GUI-I Class. 
Assignment 1 Reading Summary. 
Last Updated by AD on 05/20/2024 at 10:05 PM. 



In this week, we were introduced to the main aspects of software development and the differences between 
front-end and back-end development, and how they cold be both combined in the so known full-stack development. 
Full-Stack Developpers are adept at working on both fron-end(user interface) and back-end(server-side logic 
and database interactions) of web applications. 

The guide emphasizes the following key areas: 

1. HTML/CSS: They are fundamental or creating and styling web content. Key topics include semantic HTML, CSS 
Box Model, CSS preprocessors, media queries, and frameworks like Bootstrap.

2. JavaScript: Crucial for both front-end and back-end development. Topics include the DOM, JSON, functional 
programming, asynchronous control flow, and popular frameworks like React or AngularJS.

3. Back-End Languages: Various options are available, such as Node.js, Ruby, Python, Java, and PHP. The choice 
depends on personal preference and the specific demands of the job market.

4. Databases & Web Storage: Knowledge of relational (SQL) and NoSQL databases, data storage techniques, 
and in-memory data stores like Redis.

5. HTTP & REST: Understanding how the web works, including RESTful API design, HTTP methods, and web security 
practices.

6. Web Application Architecture: Best practices for structuring and scaling applications, including the use 
of platforms like Heroku and AWS.

7. Git: Essential for version control and collaboration. Basic commands and concepts are necessary for managing 
code changes.

8. Basic Algorithms & Data Structures: Important for writing efficient code and solving complex problems. 
Knowledge of data structures like hash tables, trees, and graphs, as well as algorithm analysis, is beneficial.

Based on the information on this guide in relation to my prior knowledge and skills, I feel like I have some Basic
knowledge and skills in back-end development, but I am really excited to expand my knowledge into fron-end development. 
Therefore, I must learn and practice front-end development with the basics of HTML and CSS, as well as JavaScript.
I also should improve my database knowledge through SQL and NoSQL, REST APIs and explore more algorithm for solving 
complex and real world problems that Software engineers face in their jobs. 


